# Project Name - AirBnb Bookings Analysis

# Project Summary 
Airbnb is an online marketplace that connects people who want to rent out their homes with people looking for accommodations in specific locales. The company has come a long way since 2007, when its co-founders first came up with the idea to invite paying guests to sleep on an air mattress in their living room. According to Airbnb's latest data, it now has more than 7 million listings, covering some 100,000 cities and towns in 220-plus countries and regions worldwide.

This project involved exploring and cleaning a dataset to prepare it for analysis. The data exploration process involved identifying and understanding the characteristics of the data, such as the data types, missing values, and distributions of values. The data cleaning process involved identifying and addressing any issues or inconsistencies in the data, such as errors, missing values, or duplicate records and remove outliers.Using data visualization to explore and understand patterns in Airbnb data. I created various graphs and charts to visualize the data, and wrote observations and insights below each one to help us better understand the data and identify useful insights and patterns.

# Problem Statement
To perform the exploratory data analysis for understanding the behaviour of customers and hosts on the Airbnb platform to make business decissions.
# Business Objective
Since 2008, guests and hosts have used Airbnb to expand on travelling possibilities and present a more unique, personalised way of experiencing the world. Today, Airbnb became one of a kind service that is used and recognized by the whole world. Data analysis on millions of listings provided through Airbnb is a crucial factor for the company. These millions of listings generate a lot of data - data that can be analysed and used for security, business decisions, understanding of customers' and providers' (hosts) behaviour and performance on the platform, guiding marketing initiatives, implementation of innovative additional services and much more. This dataset has around 49,000 observations in it with 16 columns and it is a mix of categorical and numeric values. This project is about explore and analyse the data to discover key understandings and make business decisions.
# Conclusion
The analysis of Airbnb booking data has revealed several key insights in studying the behaviour of customers and business of NYC.These findings have important implications for both Airbnb hosts and users.Moving forward, there is a need for further research in reviews.In dataset they only provide number of reviews,but there is need of positive reviews and negative reviews to study about the hosts maintaince and behaviour. Overall, this analysis underscores the importance of understanding Airbnb booking behavior and offers valuable insights for improving the Airbnb experience for all stakeholders."
